README.md, before:

# Visual Novel Engine (VNEngine)

**VNEngine** is a visual novel engine developed in Python using Pygame. It offers a flexible and simple way to create visual novels with support for characters, backgrounds, sprites, dialogues, conditions, and labels.

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> The engine name may change

>[!NOTE]
> Development documentation is not available

## Installation (build)

1. Download the executable (https://github.com/Neyunse/vne/releases)
2. Put the SDK in a folder with the name of your project and Run the engine (vne.exe)
3. Edit
4. Have fun!

## Installation (SRC)

### Requirements

* Pygame

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Neyunse/vne/tree/dev vne
   cd vne
   ```

2. Install necessary dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Run the engine:
   ```bash
   python main.py debug test-game
   ```

## License

VNengine © 2024 by Neyunse is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International

> [!WARNING]  
> The license can be modified in future updates, the license that is modified becomes effective from the next update or change in the repository. Old licenses will remain active for old versions only.

## Contributions

Feel free to fork and contribute to this engine.

Commit message:

Add important note about CLI mode usage in README

README.md, after:

# Visual Novel Engine (VNEngine)

**VNEngine** is a visual novel engine developed in Python using Pygame. It offers a flexible and simple way to create visual novels with support for characters, backgrounds, sprites, dialogues, conditions, and labels.

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> The engine name may change

>[!NOTE]
> Development documentation is not available

## Installation (build)

1. Download the executable (https://github.com/Neyunse/vne/releases)
2. Put the SDK in a folder with the name of your project and Run the engine (vne.exe)
3. Edit
4. Have fun!

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> the engine does not have an interface, it is used in CLI mode

## Installation (SRC)

### Requirements

* Pygame

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Neyunse/vne/tree/dev vne
   cd vne
   ```

2. Install necessary dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Run the engine:
   ```bash
   python main.py debug test-game
   ```

## License

VNengine © 2024 by Neyunse is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NoDerivatives 4.0 International

> [!WARNING]  
> The license can be modified in future updates, the license that is modified becomes effective from the next update or change in the repository. Old licenses will remain active for old versions only.

## Contributions

Feel free to fork and contribute to this engine.
